OK.
That's a video we're going to do is we're gonna start implementing some interfaces and we are going
to be doing this one here to enter and create interfaces for the pet clinic services.
And one thing that the reference implementation does not have is if you look at a second look at the
pattern that they're using here real quick.
So we have an owner controller and the controller directly uses the owner repository.
And the way I personally prefer to do things I prefer to have a service layer and have that service
layer interact with the repository and you'll see see why here and a little bit because what I'm gonna
do is I'm going to step you through several different implementations of those.
And what we can do here is provide different implementations of the services that we wire up into them.
So I'm going to be showing you how to do that in a couple different ways.
And what I want to do is provide interfaces for that and some of them are going to be the services we'll
be using spring data JPA repositories where others.
The first thing we're gonna do is create a map implementation.
So if you can visualize this we will have a controller so here's an owner controller.
This is what's going to be handling the web requests.
I'm going to interject a service interface into it and depending on the implementation that service
interface we can get the value from a hash map we can get him from Spring data repositories we can use
plain old JD B.S. We could call a web service we could have the implementations for all the stuff and
coming up in the course I'm going to show you how to wire in different mutations but in this video what
I want to do is start setting up the interfaces for our stuff and if we come in here and look at our
data our model we have owner person pet pet type and Java person is kind of a base class.
So what I want to do is I want to implement interfaces for owner and that and then also pet and we're
going to evolve this as we go forward.
But for this particular video all I'm going to do is implement these interfaces.
So if I could come over to ontology now up here this is a repository that we have when we implement
something now this spring data JPA will provide us an implementation if we saw what happened to ask
for it.
What I'm gonna do is I'm going to mimic some of this stuff and this is a basic repository interface
so this gives us CRUD operations so that's create read update and delete.
So very basic stuff that we can have and we can also implement this and extend this where we need to
but I am going to implement a service layer on that and I'm going to implement that in data so we have
model
that's kind of a lot more intelligent.
I'm going to do those same new package
I'm going to create a new package called services
and now I say new class and this is going to be an interface
so it's going to be owner service.
So again I'm falling naming convention of just calling it owner service interface and then we'll create
implementations for that in an upcoming video and I look through the code and what we want to do is
a fine by De and we'll be using longs for the 90
that's going to return back and owner
so implement a find by I.D. that we don't have an I.D. property defined yet.
We'll have a save that we'll save it and then we'll say Find all and we can actually enhance this to
so I can see here that we are doing fine by last name that's a convenience method we're going to have
we're looking up owners by last name and I am going to save these and we want to implement these for
the other services.
So we have owner service let's create a new
yeah go ahead and add
I'm not going to bring in owner I just want some we are going to change this to put
so I have the interface for pet service that does a fine by I.D. save and find all.
And let's also implement the VAT
and to get
and we're just clambering and set
change this to
pet.
So what I've done is implemented three interfaces these are going to be some basic interfaces that are
going to give us methods that we can add to so we can do a save find by D or find all.
So we have a number of different options here that we can use and we'll use this to go ahead and set
things up.
We will create a map of temptation and going forward also do a spring data JPA implementation so we'll
have some different imputations that we'll work with.
I'm going to show you how to build that.
And right now I do not have everything implemented.
This is an incremental commit.
So we are just kind of laying the groundwork for things that we will be doing coming up.
Obviously we're going to need more services and interfaces and implementations and our object model
is going to continue to evolve because if you look at our model I'm doing a fine by long and I'll give
you a hint right now person.
We don't have a 90 value there so that's something that we're gonna have to implement coming up.
So let me go ahead and implement those.
So I'm going to go ahead right click.
There you commit directory that's going to bring a net dialogue.
And I can't remember that issue idea Come back over here to issues and this is number five
I'm putting in close number five.
And now to commit and push
and that is pushing out to get home you can see the push it's successful in time.
Back over to Chrome and you can see that it's closed already so come back to issues and now I'm going
to say add
some I want to add in that I.D. we will do that an upcoming video
will go ahead and add that as a long and now I'm going to go ahead and submit that new issue and just
recap here I'm going to come into code and look at the commits and we can see here that I implemented
this so let's go ahead and take a look at this commit and we can see that I added an a owner service
interface a pet service interface and a VAT service interface and we are going to be having multiple
implementations of these coming up and then we'll be using the spring version control container to wire
up one at runtime depending on what our application needs are.
So I'm doing this to show off the versatility of Spring and how we can configure the application and
that's going to dovetail nicely as we learn more about dependency injection and working with the spring
framework.